fix(insights): fixes based on user prompts (#4515)
inngest/inngest: ui/apps/dashboard/src/lib/inngest/functions/agents/query-writer/system.md

The experiment's `selection_strategy`/`variant_weights` live only on the selection span — read them with the filter `attributes['_inngest.step.run.type'] = 'group.experiment'`.

## Querying AI / Token Usage

> Token usage, model, latency, and cost from `step.ai` / AI Gateway calls live in the `inngest` metadata column under the `ai` key, on the **`steps`** and **`step_attempts`** tables (one entry per inference step). They are **not** on `runs` or `events` — querying those for tokens returns no results.

Reviewer: > Token usage, model, latency, and cost from `step.ai` / AI Gateway calls live in the `inngest` metadata column under the `ai` key

Is that true? I know very little about `step.ai`. The example I was mentioning was an LLM call in a `step.run` (which our OTel AI metadata extractor turned into step metadata)

Reviewer 2: step.ai.wrap and step.ai.infer can sometimes produce AI metadata on steps with a slightly different schema than the AI Metadata produced by the OTel AI metadata extractor. This schema includes latency and cost.

Reviewer 2: I'm working on converging these schemas, so I think it's best to omit latency and cost for now.

> Available fields, read with **dot syntax** (`inngest.ai.values.<field>`) like the other metadata sections above — not bracket indexing. Cast numeric ones with `::Float64`:

Reviewer 3: This should remove the ```Cast numeric ones with `::Float64`:``` line and say something about using accurateCastOrNull to cast to the appropriate numeric type.

The insights transpiler will infer Float64 for most functions that require numeric values though

- `input_tokens` — prompt tokens (always present)
- `output_tokens` — completion tokens (always present)
- `total_tokens` — **often absent**; do not rely on it (a missing value yields `0`/`NaN`). Compute the total as `input_tokens + output_tokens` instead.
- `model` / `response_model` — the requested / serving model name
- `latency_ms`, `estimated_cost`

> Use `step_attempts` for true usage/cost totals (retries consume tokens too); use `steps` for the latest attempt only. Only inference steps carry the `ai` key — other rows return NULL for these and are ignored by `SUM`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use `step_attempts` for true usage/cost totals (retries consume tokens too); use `steps` for the latest attempt only. Step attempts without the `ai` key return NULL for these and are ignored by `SUM`.
```

Nudging phrasing here to avoid saying inference steps, which feels like it maps to step.ai.infer

**Total token usage over the last 1 day** (compute total from input + output, not `total_tokens`):

```sql
SELECT SUM(inngest.ai.values.input_tokens::Float64)

>      + SUM(inngest.ai.values.output_tokens::Float64) AS total_tokens

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
SELECT SUM(inngest.ai.values.input_tokens)
     + SUM(inngest.ai.values.output_tokens) AS total_tokens
```

The most recent changes infer `accurateCastOrNull(..., 'Float64')` which is more resilient than `::Float64`. An explicit `Float64` cast will blow up if Null is hit

FROM step_attempts

> WHERE queued_at >= now() - INTERVAL 1 DAY

Reviewer: I don't think this query is valid. It errors for me.

Should we do the following instead?

```sql
SELECT
    SUM(
      accurateCastOrNull(inngest.ai.values.input_tokens, 'Float64')
      + accurateCastOrNull(inngest.ai.values.output_tokens, 'Float64')
    ) AS total_tokens
FROM step_attempts
WHERE queued_at >= now() - INTERVAL 1 DAY
```

```

**Token usage broken down by model:**

```sql
SELECT inngest.ai.values.model AS model,
       SUM(inngest.ai.values.input_tokens::Float64) AS input_tokens,

>        SUM(inngest.ai.values.output_tokens::Float64) AS output_tokens

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
       SUM(inngest.ai.values.input_tokens) AS input_tokens,
       SUM(inngest.ai.values.output_tokens) AS output_tokens
```

The most recent changes infer `accurateCastOrNull(..., 'Float64')` which is more resilient than `::Float64`. An explicit `Float64` cast will blow up if Null is hit

WHERE ilike(data.email, '%@example.com')
```

> `function_id` and `app_id` (and their aliases) are **UUID** columns. They may appear **only** as `= '<slug>'` or `IN ('<slug>', …)`; slug→UUID translation happens only for those operators with a **complete** slug. You must **never** wrap them in any function. That includes `LIKE`/`ILIKE`/`match`/`position`/`substring`/`lower`/`upper`/`concat` and every other string or scalar function. Any of these fails with _"Illegal type UUID of argument of function …"_.

Reviewer 3: It is also valid using them in `GROUP BY` or as a selected column.

`COUNT(DISTINCT function_id)` or `uniq(function_id)` (or any of the many other counting functions) are also reasonable things to do.

Some other aggregations are supported with special logic. Namely `any`, `groupArray`, `groupUniqArray`, (and some more specific arrayGrouping ones) (Notably these don't transform the function/app_id other than maybe collecting an array of them)
